README : GPSE

DESCRIPTION

    GPSE is a Fortran program created to numerically approximate 
    solutions of the time-dependent Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE) in 
    non-uniformly rotating frames of reference for a single component 
    Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in three dimensions. It implements a
    method-of-lines approach that combines an explicit, generalized 
    4th-order Runge-Kutta (GRK4) time-integration scheme* with 2nd- or 
    4th-order central differences (CD2/CD4) to discretize the spatial 
    derivatives of the equation.

    Zero Dirichlet boundary conditions are assumed to apply at the 
    boundary of the computational domain at all times in any given 
    simulation. As a result, gpse is best suited for investigating BECs
    confined within externally applied trapping potentials where the 
    condensate density decreases to zero at the boundary of the 
    computational domain.

    The GRK4 + CDX algorithm is implemented in parallel using a 
    one-dimensional slab decomposition of the computational domain 
    embedded within a hybrid MPI + OpenMP framework to enable scalable,
    high-resolution numerical simulations. A two-round communication 
    pattern, where even- and odd-numbered MPI processes alternate 
    between send and receive calls, is utilized to reduce communication
    overhead and improve message passing throughput.

    * See 'On A General Formula of Fourth Order Runge-Kutta Method' by 
      D. Tan and Z. Chen in the Journal of Mathematical Sciences & 
      Mathematics Education Vol. 7 No. 2 (2012).

USAGE

    make
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=X
    mpirun -np Y ./gpse.x > gpse.output

DEPENDENCIES

    GPSE depends on the standard Message Passing Interface (MPI) module. 
    If USE :: MPI module is not supported, then INCLUDE 'mpif.h' header
    file. 

CITATION

    To cite the use of this work in a scientific publication, please use
    the following reference:

    @phdthesis{kandesmc:2015,
        author = "Kandes, M. C.",
        title = "Modeling the Effects of Inertial Forces on 
                Bose-Einstein Condensates in Rotating Frames of 
                Reference",
        school = "Claremont Graduate University \& San Diego State 
                 University",
        year = "2015",
    }

AUTHOR

     Marty Kandes, Ph.D.
     Computational & Data Science Research Specialist
     High-Performance Computing User Services Group
     San Diego Supercomputer Center
     University of California, San Diego

COPYRIGHT
     
     Copyright (c) 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 Martin Charles Kandes

LICENSE

     The MIT License (MIT)

LAST UPDATED

     Friday, January 3rd, 2020
